
# TerriaMap Hackathon Conclusions

The Hackathon demonstrated that TerriaMap is a very interesting and
visually appealing web application that provides a means for researchers
to create curated visualisations of geospatial data and allow for
diverse datasets to be visualised and explored together in a
browser-based interface. TerriaMap allows diverse datasets to be easily
integrated and styled.

TerriaMap is an important tool that organisations can use along with
data publication services to increase the understanding and usage of
their data.

We did not have enough time during the Hackathon to look at all of
TerriaMap’s capabilities and functionality. Some of TerriaMap’s features
like the “Data Stories” functionality, where explanatory interactive
narratives can be crafted to guide and tell users a story with the
configured data layers, would have been quite interesting to explore.
The Data Story functionality could have be used to construct a timeline
and data story around the “Hunga Tonga” event illustrating the different
datasets and events of interest to the project partners.

It was appreciated that TerriaMap supports a wide range of data formats
and data services, it’s Open Source nature easily facilitates the
addition of different data formats and data services. It maybe fruitful
in future projects to assist in the further development of TerriaMap to
increase support for ERDDAP data services, OGC Sensor Things, RO-Crates
and Spatio Temporal Asset Catalogs (STAC) catalogues. A STAC “catalog
Item” or “Catalog Group” based on a STAC query implemented in a similar
fashion to the desktop QGIS [STAC API
Browser](https://plugins.qgis.org/plugins/qgis_stac/) plugin could be a
quite interesting addition to TerriaMap data service support. It would
also be interesting to continue investigating how the FAIR-EASE IDDAS
integrated with TerriaMap either through a CSW interface or work on a
plugin to work with the IDDAS Sparql interface.